TITLE: Unknown Title
AUTHOR: Scott Murray
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/football/live/2025/oct/14/latvia-v-england-world-cup-2026-qualifier-live
DATE: Tue Oct 14 2025 21:04:05 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)
============================================================

Here's a Guardian news report. by Scott Murray. David Hytner was at Daugava Stadium in Riga, Latvia, and his report is in. Here it is. Congratulations to England, and thanks to you, dear reader, for joining us on the MBM. A beaming Thomas Tuchel speaks to ITV. “Brilliant, brilliant. . . such a good mood in the dressing room. . . it is our dream to go to America. . . we made it. . . another good performance. . . top result. . . six wins. . . clean sheet. . . very happy. . . we are dominant. . . hungry. . . a lot of ball wins in the opponent’s half. . . it’s good. . . we are on our way. . . it’s a club feel. . . very aggressive. . . a high press. . . very demanding. . . everyone needs to buy into the idea. . . the group is a very good group. . . a pleasure to coach them. . . it’s step by step. ” As for the England fans singing “Are we loud enough for you?!” [more grinning] “I got some stick in the first half. . . fair enough, well done. . . good sense of humour. . . no problem. . . I can handle it. . . brilliant support from start to finish!” In tonight’s other Group K match, Serbia won 3-1 in Andorra. All of which means the table looks like this, with England now certain of finishing top. They’re the first, and currently only, European side to have made certain of their qualification. 1. England P6 W6 D0 L0 F18 A0 Pts 18 2. Albania P6 W3 D2 L1 F6 A3 Pts 11 3. Serbia P6 W3 D1 L2 F7 A7 Pts 10 4. Latvia P7 W1 D2 L4 F4 A13 Pts 5 5. Andorra P7 W0 D1 L6 F3 A15 Pts 1 England’s final fixtures next month are against Serbia (h) and Albania (a). Post-match postbag. “Mightily impressed by England this evening, albeit against weak opposition. Kane was superb. I hope some of the big guns like Madueke, Trent AA, Foden and Grealish come into the fray before the World Cup. I know Tuchel prides the team over individuals but I think the above players could come in handy”, Colum Fordham. . . but on the other hand. . . “Is it really such an alien idea to pick the players that play together well rather than pick the best individuals and mangle the team trying to fit them all in? A lot of the discussion during these couple of games has focused on Tuchel leaving out some of the bigger names and perhaps more talented players. Yet as soon as people praise this approach, in the next breath they’re pondering who will drop out to get Bellingham/Foden/Palmer back in by the time the World Cup comes round. Is it really so inconceivable that Tuchel might be serious and not just ‘sending a message’? You’d think we’d be all in favour of this approach. After all, no one was arguing that Jack Charlton or Geoff Hurst were the best players in their positions, but that team didn’t do too badly”, David Wall Harry Kane speaks to ITV. “Another tournament. . . we make it look easy but these games can be tough. . . these groups can be tough. . . a high level. . . setting a high standard. . . keeping the momentum we have built. . . the way I am seeing the passes, the runs. . . I’m in a good moment. . . qualified with two games to go is a great achievement. . . zero goals conceded. . . you want competition in every position. . . we have that. . . we have players who will be itching to get back into the squad. . . we need them as well. . . there will be a little bit of chop and change. . . that’s the competition. . . keep pushing each other. . . see where it takes us. . . I know Thomas has said the fans weren’t great. . . I don’t think you can question our away support ever. . . America is going to be a special place to play. . . credit to them for showing the noise. ” Harry Kane might not have scored a record-equalling sixth hat-trick for England. Jimmy Greaves still on top of that particular list. But a two-goal haul isn’t to be sniffed at, and that’s now 76 goals in 110 appearances for the Bayern Munich star. It’s 24 more than Wayne Rooney, 27 more than Bobby Charlton, 28 more than Gary Lineker and 32 more than Greavsie. Meanwhile Maksims Toņiševs tonight scored the 64th own goal against England. Anthony Gordon and Eberechi Eze with the others, fine strikes both, and everyone celebrates England’s qualification for next year’s World Cup with the fans, despite the rain driving down in Riga. It’s been a good night for England, their captain, and everyone who braved the Latvian weather. England have made it to Fifa World Cup 26 with two qualification games to spare. And in some style. 90 min +1: Kane balloons it. He’s still on five hat-tricks, alongside Gary Lineker. 90 min: Kane advances on the Latvian box and is clipped by Dašķevičs. He’ll be taking the free kick himself, because if he scores it, he’ll equal Jimmy Greaves’s record of six hat-tricks for England. 89 min: Grabovskis is making his debut for Latvia, and nearly scores with his first touch. Zelenkovs pulls back from the left for the 20-year-old debutant, who attempts to whip a shot into the bottom right. Burn blocks well, with Pickford wrong-footed. 88 min: Ikaunieks is replaced by Grabovskis. 87 min: Konsa is booked for a needlessly petulant shove on Regža. Bowen wins the ball in the centre circle and powers down the middle. He draws three red shirts and slips the ball to Eze on his left. Eze takes a few touches back infield before driving across Zviedris and into the bottom right. Lovely finish! 85 min: England remain patient. 83 min: Rashford wins a corner down the left. It comes to nothing. This match is petering out now. . . although you can be sure Kane hasn’t given up on his hat-trick dream yet. 82 min: Henderson shovels a clever pass down the right to release Bowen. . . but Cigaņiks reads the danger and refuses to offer Bowen a route into the box. Bowen tries to steal around him but runs slap-bang into the defender. 81 min: Ikaunieks embarks on a Power Sashay down the middle of the park. He’s got options either side, plus a pocket of space in which to take a shot, but dallies too long and eventually is dispossessed by Burn. 79 min: . . . and eventually Černomordijs loses his, having a nibble at Eze’s ankle out on the right. Bowen takes the free kick and curls it gently, and harmlessly, wide left. 77 min: England showcase their patience. 75 min: Bowen spins away from Cigaņiks down the right and wins another England corner. Eze pulls it back for Kane, who meets it on the edge of the box with a low first-time drive. Zviedris kicks clear to deny Kane his hat-trick. 73 min: . . . and here come some more. Regža and Saveļjevs come on for Gutkovskis, who did a decent job while dining on scraps up front, and Vapne. 72 min: Lewis-Skelly earns a corner down the left. Eze whips it to the near post. Ikaunieks heads clear. The substitutions have jiggered the rhythm of this match. 71 min: Gordon’s work here is done. Off he goes, as does Stones. On come Rashford and Burn. 70 min: That was Latvia’s best moment of the game, during which they went close twice. Dašķevičs making quite the instant impression. 68 min: Dašķevičs’s first act is to drive down the left. His low cross goes all the way through to Toņiševs, whose low diagonal drive whistles inches past the left-hand post. It took a little nick on the way through, and from the resulting corner, Dašķevičs takes a shot that’s parried by Pickford, then Ikaunieks tries an overhead kick from the edge of the D. Over the bar. 67 min: Bowen cuts in from the right and balloons a shot over the bar. His effort still earns the thumbs-up from his contented manager. 66 min: Latvia make their second change of the evening, Dašķevičs coming on for Varslavāns. 64 min: England paint some pretty triangles down the left. Suddenly the ball drops to Eze on the edge of the D. Eze sends a forensic drive towards the bottom left. Zviedris does well to parry. The ball flies to the left, and Gordon chases it. He’s nudged from behind by the unfortunate Toņiševs, and demands a penalty. He’s not getting one. You’ve seen them awarded for much less. Both teams can now point to one that could have been given on another day. 62 min: England smell stat-padding quantities of blood. A couple of corners come in from the left. Both cause Latvia concern. From the second one, Gordon’s close-range swivel and snapshot is blocked by the closed legs of Cigaņiks. 60 min: England make a triple change, replacing Rice, Rogers and Saka with Henderson, Eze and Bowen. Spence crosses. A rabona, for goodness sake. Zviedris flaps it clear. England come again. Spence crosses once again, in a more conventional style this time. Zviedris flaps again, but only towards his own man Toņiševs, who, wrong-footed, pings the ball into his own net. 57 min: Rice has the chance to release his Arsenal team-mate Lewis-Skelly down the left, but hesitates, then telegraphs the pass, and Toņiševs is able to intercept and whip clear. 55 min: Gutkovskis isn’t disheartened, and now cuts in from the right before firing a curler towards the top-left corner. Just wide. Had the shot been on target, Pickford may or may not have been getting to it. 54 min: Ikaunieks pings a long pass down the inside-left channel for Gutkovskis. The striker’s clear of Konsa! He enters the box but, as Pickford comes out to close him down, hesitates fatally. Konsa recovers to extend a leg from behind and hook-tackle the ball away from danger. Brilliant last-ditch stop! 52 min: England stroke it around with the patience of a team who know the job is long done. 50 min: Rice’s vicious free kick nicks off Cigaņiks’s head and out for a corner. That was very close to flying into the top right for an own goal. Nothing comes of the next set piece. 49 min: England stroke it around patiently. Eventually the new boy Toņiševs’s patience snaps and he fouls Lewis-Skelly out on the left. Rice to swing the free kick into the mixer. 47 min: England are kicking towards the remainder of their support. Gordon attacks down the left and crosses. A brief game of pinball breaks out, before the whistle goes to release the pressure on the hosts. Latvia get the second half started. They’ve replaced Jurkovskis with Toņiševs. “Harry Kane is the quintessential great footballer who looks nothing like a great footballer, ” suggests Paul Griffin. “Not since Neville Southall has a static player looked more in need of a mobility scooter, but moved like a panther/lynx/big cat of your choice. ” Our very own Philip Cornwall is at the stadium tonight on a busman’s holiday. Here’s his dispatch from the stands. Lots of England fans leaving at half-time, job done. A 9. 45pm local time kick-off is a nonsense when most of the public transport routes back to the city centre finish around 11. 30. Uncovered seats, rain, 3-0 up. . . stay to the end and you risk a sodden 45-minute walk back. Half-time entertainment. It took a while, but England eventually ran up the half-time scoreline a performance of total domination has deserved. Thomas Tuchel’s men are once again in the goals, playing some easy-on-the-eye football. They’re going to the World Cup. Kane takes his time, leaps before shooting, and passes the penalty into the bottom left, having sent Zviedris the wrong way. 45 min +2: Rice’s corner comes in from the left. Černomordijs hauls down Kane. Play continues, but eventually VAR calls the referee over to the monitor. Not too long after, the ref points to the spot. 45 min: . . . and it was nearly number 76, as Rice advances down the left before looping long for Kane, who heads down towards the bottom left. Zviedris sticks out a strong hand to shovel out for a corner. It’s not quite Banks v Pele, but there’s a vague resemblance. Just vague, mind. It was a decent save. Kane takes a couple of touches, right to left, along the edge of the Latvia D, before whipping a vicious low drive into the bottom left. Zviedris with no chance! Goal number 75 in appearance 110. 43 min: Rogers slips a pass in from the left for Anderson, who opens his body and slices a sidefoot wide right. England are soon coming at the hosts again, Kane playing a cute reverse pass down the inside-left channel to nearly release Rice. Zviedris comes out and smothers. 41 min: Saka dribbles in from the right and is tap-tackled around the ankles by a prone Zelenkovs, who is punished with a booking. Saka gets up to take the resulting free kick himself, and doesn’t clear the first man. 39 min: Gordon, his tail very much up, dances in from the left only for his curler towards the bottom right to be deflected wide. He doesn’t get the corner he deserves. Then Anderson swings in from the right, but Černomordijs denies Gordon the chance to meet the dropping ball, ten yards out. Finally Kane whistles a low drive wide right. England pressing hard to double their lead. 37 min: Gordon dribbles to the byline on the left and fires a low ball through the six-yard box. Kane can’t sort his feet under pressure from Balodis, who does a great job to deny the England captain an opportunity to slam home from close range, ushering the ball away to the right of goal. 35 min: Kane cuts in from the left and tries to do a Gordon. His shot pings off a defender’s knee and out for a corner on the right. Rice sends it in, and the hosts clear their lines without fuss.