TITLE: Red Cross receives bodies of four more Israeli hostages; Trump says Hamas must disarm ‘or we will disarm them’ – as it happened
AUTHOR: Fran Lawther
URL: https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2025/oct/14/gaza-ceasefire-israel-hamas-palestine-hostages-detainees-truce-live-news-updates
DATE: Tue Oct 14 2025 19:59:57 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)
============================================================

Here's a Guardian news report. about UK politics. by Fran Lawther. Hamas handed over four more bodies of Israeli hostages on Tuesday evening as Israel threatened to reduce aid into Gaza over delays to the release of remains. The Israeli military said in a statement: “According to information provided by the Red Cross, four coffins of deceased hostages have been transferred into their custody and are on their way to IDF (military) and ISA (security agency) forces in the Gaza Strip. ” Four bodies returned earlier were named on Tuesday. Yossi Sharabi, Daniel Peretz, Guy Iluz and Bipin Joshi were named by hostage groups and the Israeli military. Donald Trump has warned that Hamas must disarm or “we will disarm them”, after he earlier declared that phase two of his ceasefire agreement for Gaza “begins right now”. “They said they were going to disarm, and if they don’t disarm, we will disarm them, ” the US president told reporters. Asked how he would do that, Trump said: “I don’t have explain that to you, but if they don’t disarm, we will disarm them. They know I’m not playing games. ” Trump added that could happen “quickly and perhaps violently”. The Rafah border crossing between Gaza and Egypt will stay closed through Wednesday and the flow of aid into the Palestinian enclave will be reduced, three Israeli officials said on Tuesday. A nephew of late Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat has returned to the West Bank after four years of self-exile, outlining a roadmap to secure peace in Gaza with Hamas transforming into a political party and declaring his readiness to help govern. Nasser al-Qudwa, a prominent critic of the current Palestinian leadership, also urged “a serious confrontation of corruption in this country”. Some of the near 2, 000 Palestinian prisoners released on Monday are suffering from a range of health problems they developed during years in Israeli detention, doctors and freed prisoners in the occupied West Bank told the Associated Press. The Palestine Medical Complex in Ramallah received 14 men released on Monday as part of the exchange and discharged all but two. The European Union should maximise its influence in Gaza’s recovery process and join a US-proposed “Board of Peace” intended to temporarily oversee governance of the territory, the EU’s diplomatic arm said in a document seen by Reuters. Israel and the Palestinian Islamist militant group Hamas carried out a hostage-prisoner exchange on Monday and a ceasefire is in force under the first phase of president Donald Trump’s 20-point initiative for Gaza after two years of war. The Israel-Hamas ceasefire deal that halts two years of armed conflict in Gaza presents an opportunity for a lasting economic recovery in the region, the International Monetary Fund’s deputy chief economist said on Tuesday. Petya Koeva-Brooks said the IMF stands ready to cooperate with the international community on the recovery of Gaza and regional economies that have been deeply affected by the conflict, including Egypt and Jordan. Pictures from the news wires show Red Cross vehicles arriving to transport the remains of four more Israeli hostages: The Israeli military has released a statement on the release of four more bodies of Israeli hostages. Agence France-Presse has the statement: “According to information provided by the Red Cross, four coffins of deceased hostages have been transferred into their custody and are on their way to IDF (military) and ISA (security agency) forces in the Gaza Strip. ” The Red Cross has received the bodies of four hostages from Gaza, the Israeli military has said. This comes after the bodies of four hostages were handed over to Israel earlier. We’ll bring you more details as we get them. Earlier we reported that the Israeli military had said the Red Cross was on its way to collect the remains of “several” hostages from Gaza. “ The Red Cross is on its way to the meeting point in the northern Gaza Strip, where several coffins of deceased hostages will be transferred into their custody, ” the IDF said in an updated statement, after earlier announcing the handover was to happen in southern Gaza. Earlier, a senior Hamas official told AFP that the group was due to hand over the remains of four to six hostages later on Tuesday. On Monday, Hamas handed over the remains of four hostages, just hours after releasing the last 20 living captives. Earlier today, the Associated Press reported that Gaza’s Nasser hospital had said it had received the first 45 bodies of Palestinians who had been detained by the Israeli military since October 7, 2023. The bodies were handed over by the international committee of the Red Cross as part of the Israel-Hamas ceasefire agreement. A total of 450 bodies were to be returned to Gaza from Israel, the hospital said. The hospital said some of the bodies showed signs of torture and having their hands bound. It was not immediately clear when or how they died. On Monday, the last 20 living hostages were released to Israel in exchange for 1, 808 Palestinian prisoners and detainees. Hamas has so far returned the bodies of four of the remaining deceased hostages under the deal, and the Red Cross is currently on its way to Gaza to receive the remains of several more. Palestinians who were freed in past exchanges have reported frequent beatings, insufficient food and deprivation of medical care in Israeli prisons. A 2024 UN report said that since October 7, 2023, thousands of Palestinian people have been held arbitrarily and incommunicado by Israel, often shackled, blindfolded, deprived of food, water, sleep and medical care and subjected to torture or degrading treatment. Israel maintains that it follows international and domestic legal standards for the treatment of prisoners and that any violations by prison personnel are investigated. Far-right Israeli national security minister Itamar Ben-Gvir, who is in charge of prisons, has repeatedly boasted of making prison conditions for Palestinian people as harsh as possible while meeting the letter of the law. Donald Trump has warned that Hamas must disarm or “we will disarm them”, after he earlier declared that phase two of his ceasefire agreement for Gaza “begins right now”. “They said they were going to disarm, and if they don’t disarm, we will disarm them, ” the US president told reporters during a meeting with his Argentinian counterpart, Javier Milei, at the White House. Asked how he would do that, Trump said: “ I don’t have explain that to you, but if they don’t disarm, we will disarm them. They know I’m not playing games. ” Trump added that could happen “quickly and perhaps violently”. Pressed on a timeline for disarmament, Trump said only that it would be “ a reasonable period of time. . . pretty quickly ”. Trump also said he had received word from Hamas after speaking to the group that it would disarm, talks that he said were “through my people” at the highest level. Hamas’s disarmament is a central tenement for phase two of Trump’s 20-point plan, and the militant group has previously rejected the idea outright. On Saturday, a senior official told AFP that disarmament was “out of the question”, adding: “The demand that we hand over our weapons is not up for negotiation. ” The Israeli military has said the Red Cross is on its way to a meeting point in northern Gaza Strip to receive the bodies of “several” more deceased hostages. It did not disclose the number of bodies the Red Cross is set to receive. We’ll bring you more on this as we get it. Earlier, Hamas told mediators that it would begin the transfer of four more deceased hostages this evening. So far, the bodies of four hostages have been handed over to Israel, leaving 24 still inside Gaza. Hamas has indicated that it will take time to find some bodies under the rubble in Gaza. A spokesperson for the Red Cross has also warned locating the bodies will be a “massive challenge”. Yousef Khalil, who found his house still standing, looks out at the destroyed district of Gaza City. The families of missing dead Israeli hostages have written to the US special envoy Steve Witkoff to urge him to “pull out every stop and leave no stone unturned” in forcing Hamas to bring their relatives home from Gaza. The return of 28 dead hostages was part of the agreement that ushered in a ceasefire, but only four have so far been handed over. Mediators understand that Hamas is having trouble locating all of the dead but the Israeli government believes the group is making insufficient effort, although Israeli media reported on Tuesday night that Hamas had told mediators that they would hand-over a further four bodies within hours. Read the full story here: An Israeli organisation campaigning for the release of hostages says one of the four bodies returned by Hamas was that of Yossi Sharabi, who was abducted during the group’s 7 October 2023 attack on Israel. “The Hostages and Missing Families Forum embraces the family of Yossi Sharabi at this difficult time, following the return of their beloved Yossi to Israel yesterday for a proper burial, ” the group said in a statement. In a separate statement, the campaign group also confirmed the return of the remains of hostage Daniel Peretz to Israel, as part of a group of four deceased hostages handed over by Hamas on Monday. The Israeli military said it had also identified the bodies of Guy Iluz, an Israeli national, and Bipin Joshi, a Nepalese agriculture student. Earlier, Hamas released an online video that appeared to show its fighters shooting eight blindfolded, bound and kneeling men in the street, according to AFP. The footage, published late on Monday on Hamas-run al-Aqsa TV’s Telegram channel, was shared with the caption: “The resistance carries out the death sentence against a number of collaborators and outlaws in Gaza City. ” Hamas’s armed groups have said they are conducting a campaign against criminal gangs and clans in Gaza after the ceasefire with Israeli forces. The Guardian could not independently verify the video, and Hamas has not provided evidence to support its claim that those killed were collaborators. Former Israeli hostage Noa Argamani has spoken about the starkly different conditions she and her partner, Avinatan Or, faced during their time in captivity in Gaza. “Two years passed since the last moment I saw Avinatan, the love of my life, ” Argamani wrote on X after the pair were reunited this week. Argamani, who was freed in an Israeli military raid in June 2024 after 246 days in captivity, said she was held “with children, women, and the elderly, while Avinatan was held alone. . . I was mostly kept inside houses, while Avinatan was only in the tunnels. ” Or, abducted with her from the Nova music festival on 7 October 2023, was released on Monday as part of the Gaza ceasefire deal that ended the fighting. Bulldozers drive past displaced people, on their way to clear building rubble from the streets in Gaza City, earlier today. Earlier, as Donald Trump welcomed Argentina’s president Javier Milei to the White House, he was asked by a reporter if Hamas was holding up its end of the deal. The US president replied: “We’ll find out. ”